---
layout: post
title: New paper in Social Science & Medicine
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
---

My latest paper with Isabel Rossen, Patrick Dunlop, and Carmen Lawrence "Accepters, fence sitters, or rejecters: Moral profiles of vaccination attitudes" has just been accepted for publication in *Social Science & Medicine.* The abstract for the paper is below:

> **Rationale:** Childhood vaccination is a safe and effective way of reducing infectious diseases. Yet, public confidence in vaccination is waning, driven in part by the ‘manufacture of doubt’ by anti-vaccination activists and websites. However, there is little research examining the psychological underpinnings of anti-vaccination rhetoric among parents. **Objectives:** Here, we examined the structure and moral roots of anti-vaccination attitudes amongst Australian parents active on social media parenting sites. **Methods:** Participants (*N* = 296) completed questionnaires assessing their vaccination attitudes, behavioural intentions, and moral preferences. **Results:** Using Latent Profile Analysis, we identified three profiles (i.e., groups), interpretable as vaccine "accepters", "fence sitters", and "rejecters", each characterised by a distinct pattern of vaccination attitudes and moral preferences. Accepters exhibited positive vaccination attitudes and strong intentions to vaccinate; rejecters exhibited the opposite pattern of responses; whilst fence sitters exhibited an intermediate pattern of responses. Compared to accepters, rejecters and fence sitters exhibited a heightened moral preference for liberty (belief in the rights of the individual) and harm (concern about the wellbeing of others). Compared to acceptors and fence sitters, rejecters exhibited a heightened moral preference for purity (an abhorrence for impurity of body), and a diminished moral preference for authority (deference to those in positions of power). **Conclusion:** Given the sensitivity of fence sitters and rejecters to liberty-related moral concerns, our research cautions against the use of adversarial approaches---e.g., No Jab, No Pay legislation---that promote vaccination uptake by restricting parental freedoms, as they may backfire amongst parents ambivalent toward vaccination.






