---
layout: post
title: New paper in Psychology & Health
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
---

My latest paper with Douglas MacFarlane and Ullrich Ecker "Countering Demand for Ineffective Health Remedies: Do Consumers Respond to Risks, Lack of Benefits, or Both?" has just been accepted for publication in the journal *Psychology & Health*. The abstract for the paper is below:

> **Objective:** We tested whether targeting the illusion of causality and/or misperceptions about health risks had the potential to reduce consumer demand for an ineffective health remedy (multivitamin supplements). **Design:** We adopted a 2 (contingency information: no/yes) × 2 (fear appeal: no/yes) factorial design, with willingness-to-pay as the dependent variable. The contingency information specified, in table format, the number of people reporting a benefit vs. no benefit from both multivitamins and placebo, plus a causal explanation for lack of efficacy over placebo. The fear appeal involved a summary of clinical-trial results that indicated multivitamins can cause health harms. The control condition received only irrelevant information. **Main outcome measure:** Experimental auctions measured people’s willingness- to-pay for multivitamins. Experiment 1 (*N* = 260) elicited hypothetical willingness-to-pay online. Experiment 2 (*N* = 207) elicited incentivised willingness-to-pay in the laboratory. **Results:** Compared to a control group, we found independent effects of contingency information (-22%) and the fear appeal (-32%) on willingness-to- pay. The combination of both interventions had the greatest impact (-50%) on willingness-to-pay. **Conclusion:** We found evidence that consumer choices are influenced by both perceptions of efficacy and risk. The combination of both elements can provide additive effects that appear superior to either approach alone.






